---
title: "Why Junior Developers Should Learn TypeScript Directly"
author: "Raman Mohammed"
date: "June 23, 2024"
---

After creating my first full-stack application in JavaScript, I realized that it's easy to write poor quality code as the compiler doesn't provide warnings, and errors only occur at runtime. During my first internship at Bally’s with other students, I noticed that when the application was built with JavaScript, many of them wrote bad code, which led to developing bad habits and the need to relearn proper coding practices.

After working with both TypeScript and JavaScript, and observing other students, I strongly recommend that every junior developer start with static typing to learn the proper way of development. Learning TypeScript is valuable not only for JavaScript but also for other statically typed languages. It improves the development experience with better tooling and auto-completion. By starting with TypeScript, you will establish good habits and gain a deeper understanding of how to build scalable applications, giving you a better edge in the job market.

In my first full-stack application, I tried to replicate other successful CS platform trading sites that had revenues of over 100 million. Even though I lacked the knowledge and only used JavaScript, I learned a lot about TCP/SSL, sockets, ports, DNS, RESTful architecture, deploying in IaaS servers, and database design. However, I encountered significant problems at runtime because the compiler did not assist me as much as it would have if I had used TypeScript. You can check out the GitHub repository for this project [here](https://github.com/RaymondSWE/CSFairtrade). Additionally, I created a video demonstrating the product's real-time functionality. You can watch the video [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fYdAn0O2g0Q). By using TypeScript, you can avoid many issues in plain JavaScript. The type helps catch errors at compile-time, provides better tooling support, and improves the developer experience. For junior developers, starting with TypeScript can establish a strong foundation for writing clean, maintainable, and scalable code.